title: Flying ski

abstract: 
The present flying ski is designed to be towed behind a conventional powered watercraft by a standard ski tow rope or similar device having a handle that can be held by a human rider. In use, the rider is seated on the seat of the flying ski and towed by the watercraft. The improved flying ski comprises an elongate board and a seat that extends generally perpendicular to and upward from the board to support the seated rider's buttocks. The seat preferably includes a flexible C-shaped member for absorbing impacts during use. The rider's legs extend toward the front of the board and are secured by a pair of foot holders that attach to the board. An elongate strut extends downward from the board and couples the seat to a planing blade. The elongate strut is preferably formed with a V-shape wherein the length from the front edge to the back edge of the strut is greater along an upper portion for enhanced structural integrity. The planing blade advantageously has a front blade and a rear blade interconnected by a fuselage. The rear blade may be located above the front blade for avoiding turbulence from the front blade. The present flying ski accommodates a variety of rider skill levels by incorporating a mechanism and system that allows the rider to selectively adjust performance characteristics of the ski. In particular, the rider can control stability, lift and maneuverability characteristics to accommodate the rider's particular skill level and the particular challenge that the rider seeks. The position of the rear blade may be moved forward or backward to change the hydrodynamic characteristics of the flying ski. In addition, the present flying ski includes a detachable back support that allows handicapped riders to enjoy the thrills of using the ski. The present flying ski also provides for quick and easy attachment and detachment of component parts of the ski. This feature allows the ski to be more easily transported when not in use and reduces the risk of accidentally dropping or otherwise damaging the ski.